Good afternoon, everyone.
My name's Christopher Linn,
and I work on the core
services team at Apple,
which means we work on
a whole constellation of
pieces of technology down
at the core services,
application services layer.
And today,
we wanted to talk about the file
system APIs at the framework levels
and let you know what we're doing in
Snow Level to improve efficiency and
how you can take advantage of it.
So here's our agenda.
I wanted to give a quick overview
of the current state of the
APIs for accessing the file system.
And that's to set the stage for giving
you an idea of what the limitations are
and what we're looking at improving.
And then we'll go into a fair amount of
detail about the solutions that we want
to present in Snow Leopard for certain
parts of accessing the file system.
We're not talking about things
like reading and writing,
opening files right now
or mounting volumes.
But the areas we're
concentrating on today are,
getting info out of the file system,
info about specific files,
enumerating directories,
and we're also going to
touch on creating long-lived
persistent references to files,
tracking files.
Okay.
So these are the kinds of things that
we hope you'll be able to take away.
What are the problems that we're both
internally at Apple and you guys are
facing in writing your applications,
the kinds of performance
problems you're facing?
How can approved APIs help
solve these problems.
How will these new APIs affect your
application in Snow Leopard even
without adopting and how you can take
advantage of them in your own code?
So here's the overview.
We've got a long history
in the operating system.
We've had a lot of different pieces
coming together over the years with
companies coming together and many
different layers of the system.
So what we've got right now
are pretty much three different
ways to get at the file system.
We've got the CoreOS or POSIX APIs.
And sitting on top of that, we have the
Carbon File Manager and Cocoa APIs,
primarily NS File Manager.
And these APIs all give mostly
overlapping access to the file system.
And so right away,
you can probably guess it.
So let's look at some of the
problems that this presents.
The redundancy is sort
of heavy in the system.
There's different ways
to do the same thing.
There's complexity associated
with all these different APIs,
and it gives rise to some kinds of
inefficiency that I'll go into here.
So first of all, complexity.
As I mentioned,
there's a lot of different ways,
different APIs for getting at
some of the same information.
These APIs use different
data types to identify files.
So, for example,
we have in POSIX APIs primarily
we have C strings representing
paths to identify a file.
At the Cocoa layer,
we mostly looking at an NS file manager,
we use paths but as NSStrings.
The Carbon File Manager uses FSRefs,
which those of you who aren't
too familiar with them,
they're 80 byte opaque data.
And so they're path independent,
regardless of the path to the file,
they're always 80 bytes in size,
and you have no idea what's inside them.
But it's just a different
way to refer to a file.
We also have APIs that are URL based
that only accept file URLs and of
course file URLs are ultimately
just another form of a path.
But those APIs don't
accept a string as a path.
You have to have an NSURL or
CFURL object passed to them.
And so the APIs wrapped around these data
types are sort of mutually exclusive.
For example, with a C string,
you would be using to get some
basic information about a file,
you'd be calling Lstat or stat.
The equivalent call in
the Carbon File Manager is
FSKit Catalog Info.
NS File Manager uses attributes,
the method attributes of item
path and takes an NSString path.
So while there's many different
ways to do similar stuff,
none of these APIs is actually complete.
And so you often are faced with the
requirement of switching to a different
data type in order to get at some
piece of information you need that
you can't get from NS File Manager or
you can't get from POSIX or you can't
get from the Carbon File Manager.
And so this switching
around requires conversion.
So in your application,
if you're primarily path-based
and you want to get,
you're able to get it, given a path,
you're able to get it, say,
the name or the file size from the
APIs that you have available for paths.
And then you need to get
some other information,
say,
the localized name or the display name,
as Launch Services calls it,
or you want to get the icon.
Well,
you either need to convert to an FSRef
yourself by calling fspath make ref,
or you might be using some of the
convenience functions in Cocoa that
give you access to this information.
But the fact is that under the covers,
Cocoa is often doing a conversion
to an FSRef in order to call
through to the Carbon File Manager.
And vice versa,
sometimes you find yourself holding
onto an FSRef and you need a path,
and so you call FSRef make path to
do another data type conversion.
And there's a lot of problems with this.
First of all, it's just not any fun.
It's -- it's -- it feels
like a waste of time.
You're going along and you
scratch your head and you think,
darn, I need to do this data
type conversion here,
and it adds to my code,
and it's just unpleasant or yucky to
have to do this in your application.
It would be much more convenient
if you didn't have to.
But worse than that,
it also triggers IOs.
Whenever you're converting between
a path and an FSRef or vice versa,
we have to actually look on disk to
generate the internals of an FSRef
or to turn it back into a path,
because what's in an
FSRef is a persistent file
ID and a device identifier.
And so usually, you know,
it's pretty quick because it's
usually cached in the kernel.
But you can get into situations where if
you do have to go out over the network,
when you're talking to a file server,
you've got network latency problems
that can slow you up or worse.
The network could actually be
disconnected or have a hiccup and
you might hang for a long time.
So this can really interfere
with your application.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
So I wanted to show an example
of what I was just talking about,
opening up a document.
And I wanted to use a very
low-level debugging tool or
analysis tool called FS Usage,
which can show all access to the
file system by the entire system or,
in this case, just from one application.
So we're going to use -- we're
going to be opening up an image in
preview and I want to launch preview
first so that we're not seeing
anything related to launch activity.
We're just looking at the
I/O from opening up a document.
Start up FS Usage.
This command says I want to look at
file system access and network access.
I want to look at just preview.
Now we're ready to go.
I'm going to open up the document.
As I mentioned,
there's a lot of things happening here.
Before I open this,
we're sending an Apple event
to the application.
It receives the Apple event
and there's an alias in it.
It has to resolve the alias,
compute the localized
name of the document,
get the icon of it so it can
show it in the title bar.
It has to add it to the
application recents menu.
system's global recents menu.
We tell Spotlight that
the document was opened.
At some point we read the file
and actually display the contents.
Let me go ahead and open it.
So that was pretty quick.
But let's look back at what happened.
Okay, that's too slow.
Let me go back.
So there's over 600 lines of output here.
And
[Transcript missing]
And we're opening the file and
closing it again four times.
All to open it.
It happens pretty fast.
It might not seem like something to
really get all that worried about.
But it's a lot more
apparent when you're on,
say, a network file server
that this can slow you up.
But also, we know that it is preventing
us from really being zippy.
It must be easier than just doing
the same work over and over again
in a very short period of time.
So that gives you an idea of the
problem we're trying to solve here.
Let me go back to slides.
No, I lost my clicker.
So we thought about this a long time
and we've come up with some solutions.
We want to simplify and provide
a clear direction for everyone,
both internally at Apple and
app developers like yourselves,
a preferred file system API that we can
optimize for and is designed to work well
with all different kinds of file systems.
In order to do that,
we need to unify all of our APIs around a
particular file type or file identifier.
Some of the things we can do to make
this API more efficient are make sure
that we're caching at a high level,
say in the application process,
so we have at least short-term
caching of values that are being
computed over and over again,
avoid the kind of object reallocation
that happens in bursts right now.
And we are also looking at directory
enumeration and making that as
efficient as possible so that
when you hit a directory with
10,000 items in it in particular,
and we definitely have a bunch of
customers out there like that with
those kinds of configurations,
that you can be assured you're
as efficient as possible at
enumerating those directory contents.
And then finally,
we want to eat our own dog food on
this and design these APIs for use
in our own frameworks so that we can
get benefits from these APIs right
in Snow Leopard even before we
get wide application adoption.
So it kind of started with, well,
what are we really going
to base all these APIs on?
What's the best choice here?
Because we do have several choices.
We have existing APIs, as I mentioned,
that are using paths.
We have FS refs.
We have some APIs that are URL-based.
Or we could do something new.
And, you know,
something new is kind of a neat idea,
a new object type,
because it could be completely
pristine and do everything just
exactly the way we want it to.
But the effect on our APIs would
be pretty bad because we would have
to have a completely new API set.
and it would be unfamiliar to everybody.
And so looking back at
paths and FSRefs and URLs,
well, paths kind of are what they are.
They give us one way to identify a file.
FSRefs, likewise,
they're purely ID-based.
FSRefs are not objects.
It's one of the problems we've
had over the years is that FSRefs
are just stack-based largely,
and we have no idea
when they come and go.
And so that makes it difficult for
us to do any kind of cache management
or cache policy to know when an FSRef
is no longer going to be in use.
So considering all these
different pros and cons,
let's look at URLs.
There are a bunch of advantages
to focusing our APIs.
First of all,
I mentioned that creating a whole
new data type would explode our APIs.
URLs are nice because we actually
have quite a few APIs that
are already using file URLs.
So these are the frameworks
or technologies that...
Sorry,
I'm getting distracted because they're
counting down my timer at about one
minute every five seconds right now.
I'm going to talk really fast.
These technologies are using URLs for
file system access right now.
So they have APIs that
accept only file URLs.
And AppKit has a whole bunch in, say,
for NS document and even pasteboard,
using pasteboard.
What else?
Core Foundation uses them
heavily in the CFBundle API.
Launch Services has
always supported URLs,
both file URLs and arbitrary other URLs.
So you can see there's actually
a wide adoption of URLs already,
but we didn't really have any core
API that gives us access to directory
contents and file properties via URLs.
There are some other things
that are attractive about URLs.
We already have NSURL and CFURL as
toll-free bridged objects.
So you can cast back and forth
between C and Objective-C all you want
without any sort of conversion cost.
Because URLs are objects in the sense
that we know when they come and go,
it allows us to do some
smart cache management.
We know when you're no longer
going to be referencing the file
through a particular URL object.
And on top of all that,
there's a general URL syntax
that's very flexible,
right?
So you can imagine wanting to access
resource domains other than the file.
So we can use that to do that.
We can use that to do
that in the file system.
But even within the file system domain,
URLs give us a lot of flexibility
for how we identify files.
And I'll talk about
that in a few minutes.
So as you have guessed,
we picked the URL as the new
preferred file identifier on
Mac OS X at the foundation layer
and core foundation and above.
So we're introducing new APIs in
Snow Leopard in both foundation and
core foundation that largely mirror
each other so that it's convenient for
Objective C and C developers or for lower
level programs that need just C access.
And it consists of new
methods on NSURL and some
new methods in NSFileManager,
particularly for directory enumeration.
And in core foundation,
we have new CFURL methods for
accessing file properties and a new
type CFURL enumerator for enumerating
directories as well as the volume list.
So what does the API look like?
Well,
in the URL language that we're using,
everything's a resource.
That's what URL,
that's what the R in URL stands for.
So everything's a resource.
And so resources have properties,
which are identified by keys.
And every property key can be turned
into a value for that property.
And so it's a pretty familiar
sort of API model on our platform.
And we have more than three properties,
but these are three examples.
NSURL name key,
NSURL modification date key,
NSURL file size key.
So these are string constants in the
API that you would pass in if you wanted
to get the value of one of these keys,
one of these properties.
We have both getters and
setters for properties.
Many of the properties are read-only,
but anything that you would
expect to be settable,
as long as you have access to the file,
is settable.
We also support temporary properties,
which is something whose use will become
a little more obvious later in the talk.
It's basically a way for you to, say,
in memory only,
set a property value of your own
design and be able to get back
at that property value through
the same URL instance later on.
So I wanted to just show you a
whole list just to help emphasize
how much we're supporting.
We've got over 40 properties available,
and I think there will definitely be a
few more before we ship Snow Leopard.
We've got the core set
that you might expect,
the name,
some Booleans like is it a file,
is it a directory, is volume, is package,
that is, is it a packaged directory,
is it immutable, is it hidden,
does it have a hidden extension,
all the dates, creation date,
modification date and so on.
What's the parent directory?
You get that back, of course, as a URL.
What's the volume URL that it's on?
These are the kinds of core properties
you can get for any file system resource.
And then there's other higher-level
ones that you don't have to go to
a higher-level framework to get.
We do that for you.
We have a model of providers
from higher-level frameworks.
But through one API,
you can get things like
the type identifier,
that is, the uniform type identifier that
symbolically describes the resource type.
Likewise, you can get the localized type
description or the kind string.
You can get the label
information and the label color.
That's the finder label.
You can even get the icon.
You can get both the effective icon,
which is the one that
the finder is displaying,
or if you want to know whether
the item has a custom icon,
you can ask for the custom icon key.
And that's available either
if you request it through
the core foundation API,
you get it back as a CG image,
the core graphics image.
If you request it through
the foundation NSURL API,
you get it back as an NS image,
assuming you have AppKit linked
into your process.
And then the last set on the bottom
right is a whole slew of properties
for getting at volume capabilities.
So we're continuing and pushing
even harder on our design
point of not assuming too much.
If you need to know what volume
format you're on in order to know
whether a certain capability exists,
don't assume that the volume
format capabilities are going
to remain constant forever.
You're much better off asking,
instead of asking for the
format and inferring information
from the format code,
ask the volume for its capabilities.
So these properties tell you,
does the volume support
persistent file IDs?
Does it support symlinks?
Does it support journaling?
Does it support some esoteric
things like zero runs in files?
Does it have case sensitive names?
These are all properties
you can get through,
values you can get through this API.
Now about enumerating directories.
We have enumerators that now
return URLs instead of paths.
In order to use them most efficiently,
we want to be able to, under the covers,
get things in bulk from the kernel.
And so we can do that most efficiently
if we know up front which properties
you're going to be accessing against the
URLs you're going to be getting back.
So that's called prefetching,
and that's a feature of the
enumerators that you can give us
optionally an array of property keys
that you want prefetched up front.
And as the enumerator
runs under the covers,
it's getting all the values for
those properties in the most
efficient way possible and caching
them in the application process so
that when you later ask for those
properties from the URLs that
you get back from the enumerator,
we don't do any additional I/O to
give you those property values.
These enumerators also
support deep enumeration for
those of you that need that.
In core foundation,
I mentioned that's done with a
new type called CFURL enumerator.
And what we've done in foundation
is we already -- NS file manager
already has the NS directory
enumerator type that returns paths.
And we're just making a new
factory method for that that
gives you an NS directory
enumerator which returns URLs,
NSURLs instead.
Now, what about FSRefs?
I mentioned that URLs are path-based.
And there are some things that
FSRefs do that are pretty useful.
The main thing is that since
FSRefs are path-independent,
and remember,
you track your file by file ID,
they're much smaller.
It doesn't matter how long the path is.
But also, the file ID doesn't change
when the path may change.
So, if the user moves a document
around or renames it,
a path reference to that file
becomes invalid and is useless.
But an FSRef remains valid and can
track that file around on disk.
In addition,
the 80 byte size means that it
scales really well for a few
clients who need to hold on to
a lot of FSRefs like the finder.
So we realized that we can do the same
thing by being clever with our URLs.
And so we're introducing today
something called file reference URLs,
which you can think of as a file
URL that behaves just like an FS ref.
And in a lot of ways,
it's even better because
it's smaller than 80 bytes.
But better than that, because it's a URL,
we don't need two separate APIs in order
to work with either path references
or path URLs or reference URLs.
We can have a single API that can
handle either form of the URL,
but you get the semantics that
you want depending on your needs.
Let me show you a little bit
about what those look like.
So imagine I have my presentation
on disk and a traditional file
URL would look a little bit like this,
just a path into my home directory
that identifies the file.
A file reference URL looks
a little different.
It has something at the beginning
that says .file and that's simply
a reserved name in our file
system that tells us at the root
of the file system that this URL,
it's not a valid path, by the way.
This is only valid in URL space,
but we prevent it from
conflicting in the file system.
And it tells us that in the URL,
the next item in the next element
of the path in the URL is an ID,
a device and a file ID pair.
But you don't need to worry about this.
I just wanted to explain what
you see when you look at the
URL string because the URL string
is what identifies the resource.
But we have the flexibility
to interpret file URLs on our
platform the way that works for us.
And so this is not a format, though,
that you ever have to worry about.
In fact, please don't try to construct
this yourself or parse this
string and make sense of it.
We provide very convenient APIs that do
everything you need to produce a file.
So, how does that work?
Well, first of all,
we have a lot of APIs that
are URL based already.
And those people expect to continue
returning path-based file URLs,
so we'll continue to do that.
Your app's not going to see any file
reference URLs unless you ask for them.
However,
our frameworks will be supporting
them so that you can start using them
anytime you want in Snow Leopard.
And it's mostly transparent
because what most people do
currently with URLs is when you
need to get at the underlying file,
you ask for its path,
or you say you call CFURL,
get file system representation,
which gives you back the CPath.
And that will all continue to
work with file reference URLs.
If you call these APIs,
you'll get back the
standard file system path,
not an ID-based path.
But if you use them to say,
if you use a file reference
URL to get property values,
then we don't have to do any conversion.
The path to ref conversion
or any of that stuff,
we can talk directly to the Core OS to
get properties from the file ID that's
encoded in the reference URL.
One important difference about reference
URLs is that they're not persistent.
You don't want to save them to disk
and expect them to work later on.
Like FSRefs,
they're valid for the mount lifetime
of the volume that you're working with.
So if your system is rebooted,
whatever file reference URL you
may have been holding onto,
it's no longer valid.
However, they are good globally,
so you can send them between
processes no problem.
All right,
so that's a quick overview of the APIs.
I wanted to run through
a few code examples.
Just to give you a feel
for what it looks like,
if I want to get values, property values,
this is a method called
name and icon for URL.
It returns a dictionary with just
the localized name and the icon
of the file that's passed in,
the file URL that's passed in.
So in order to do that,
we create an array containing
the keys that we want,
the localized name key and
the effective icon key.
I spaced this out vertically
because if I put it all in line
with creating the array on the fly,
it would be hard to see.
But we create the array,
and then we simply
call on the URL itself,
we call resource values for keys,
we pass in the keys array.
And then optionally,
we could get back an error if we want.
The way the API works in this
case is it returns a dictionary,
resource values for keys
returns a dictionary,
or if an error occurs, it returns nil,
and then you can check
the optional output error.
If I want to set a property,
say I want in this example,
I want to set the
modification date on a file.
This method example is called touch URL.
It's like the touch command line.
It simply calls set resource
value and you pass in the value,
in this case, NSDate date,
which is the current time and date.
For key, and the key is NSURL content
modification date key,
and again,
you get back an optional error.
This method returns a Boolean
for success or failure.
If it returns false,
then you've got an error result.
If you want to create
a file reference URL,
and the case where you might want
to use this is any time you want to
make sure you're tracking a document
by its ID so that if you're holding
onto it in memory for a long time,
the path might change,
then it's a good idea to hold
onto a file reference URL.
In this example,
the set document method is
given an arbitrary file URL,
and you know you want to assign
it to your instance variable,
but you don't know what kind
of file URL you were given.
It may be a file reference URL or
it may be a path-based URL.
Well, you can simply call on the URL,
you call the file reference URL method,
and if necessary, it converts it into a
reference URL and returns it.
And then we see... simply hold
onto that in the instance variable.
A quick example of directory enumeration.
Say we want to enumerate the
directory and we know that right
after we finish the enumeration,
we're going to be drawing the icons
and the display name or localized
name of each item in the directory.
And so what we do is we make
an array with the property
keys that we want to prefetch,
so the localized name and
the effective icon key.
And then continuing,
we ask NSFileManager for an
enumerator that is URL-based.
So that method is enumerator at
URL and you pass in the directory
URL that you want to enumerate.
This is the parallel
to enumerator at path.
Which is an existing
method in NSFileManager.
So enumerator at URL,
including properties for keys,
we pass in our key array.
And there's some options
that I won't go into,
but it includes things
like deep enumeration.
And then there's an error handler,
which is actually a block,
a callback in the form of a block
that allows you to handle errors
and either continue or not continue.
Once you have an enumerator,
you can go through it anyway
in any of the traditional ways.
In this case,
we call for URL in enumerator using
the fast enumeration protocol.
And we just go through
each item one at a time.
We get back the URLs in the directory
and add them to our object view here.
Pretty simple.
Although it's one at a time
access at the API level,
we're doing bulk access when
enumerating the directory,
talking to the core file system.
Before I finish my section,
I wanted to mention and just show real
quick some sample code that's available.
If I can switch to this
machine and get rid of that.
The sample is called URL Git Info.
It doesn't do a whole lot yet,
but we're going to be adding to
it as we fill in more of the API.
It does this nice sort of simplified
version of the Finder Info Window where
it gives us a bunch of information,
basically fetching property
values from using the API.
So this is a volume.
It starts out with showing the root,
but it gives us the volume name,
tells us the localized description,
the type identifier is public.volume,
and a bunch of other things, the date.
The parent directory URL is null,
but the volume URL is
basically slash itself.
And this app just lets
you drag in anything.
You can drag a file in,
and it shows you all of
the same information.
Of course, this is a package.
The keynotes documents are packages,
so the size in this case is zero
because it's really a directory.
An alias, you can see a couple of things.
First of all,
this is the music folder's custom icon.
We get that back from the
API and it's even badged.
It has the little alias badge on it.
And this is all through one API.
So as I said, we'll be adding to that.
I was going to open up the project,
but I think
So what's the status of the API on
the DVD that you got on Monday?
Right now we have fetching
property values is supported
both for NSURL and CFURL.
So you can get property values.
You can also use file reference
URLs so that the methods that convert
back and forth between reference
URLs and path URLs work properly.
And coming soon in upcoming seeds,
we'll have setting property values
supported and directory enumeration.
So just recapping some
of the benefits here,
this is really designed to
provide the future foundation
going forward for framework
level access to the file system.
It improves efficiency by avoiding all
those costly data type conversions.
It simplifies our APIs by preferring
one data type going forward
that works for all different
usage models of the file system.
And as you adopt the APIs,
we hope you'll find them
much more convenient.
You'll be able to simplify your code
and really get every bit of efficiency
you can by adopting this model
all the way into your application.
Now, what else?
What else haven't we covered?
Well, I mentioned up at the top
persistent file references.
And URLs, in addition to file reference
URLs being not that great for tracking
a file over the long term because
your system might get rebooted,
even file path URLs aren't that great
because file paths change over time.
And so,
we've reached that point in our show
where Keith is going to explain all
about persistent file references.
Thank you.
Am I on?
Okay.
As Chris said, I'm going to talk about
persistent file references.
And as he said,
everything you've heard about so
far is designed to give you really
efficient and fast access to cache
properties of files and stuff in memory.
However,
sometimes that isn't what you need.
Sometimes you have to store away
what file in particular you're going
to need to use later or keep track
of it so that you can come back to
it the next time the user opens it.
And URLs aren't the best for that.
As Chris said, URLs are either path-based
or file ID-based.
And file IDs aren't valid terribly long.
And paths are usually valid for a while,
but there are times
paths aren't sufficient.
And the reason is for files
on your local hard drive,
usually the path is the same.
But if users have a USB drive or
they put stuff on a file server,
sometimes even the path
to a file can change.
And so when you go to use it later,
that path is no longer correct.
What do you do?
If you're an old-school Carbon person,
you're saying, hey,
aliases are the answer.
And Alias Manager has solved
most of those problems for
the last 15 years or so.
Aliases, you create them with an FS Ref.
It gives you back something
called an alias handle.
Later, you get that alias handle back
to the Alias Manager and say,
hey, what file did this use to point to?
And it gives you back an FS Ref if
it can find the file that it thinks
the alias was originally made to.
Now,
there are a lot of Alias Manager calls.
There are more every year because
we need to add more stuff.
And the API has evolved over time.
There also are things that
you know in the Finder.
You can say,
make alias under the File menu.
And that makes a little file on
your hard drive that when you
double-click on it or when a user
picks it in an open or save panel,
it kind of follows what
the alias was made to.
And it acts a lot like symbolic links,
but kind of at a higher level with
a lot of the benefits we just talked
about-- finding and mounting file
servers or disk images or USB keys.
That said, aliases aren't perfect.
They use FSRefs and
they use alias handles,
which are both kind of older types,
and we've explained why we're not that,
you know, why FSRefs aren't doing it for
us as well as they used to.
Alias handles also, handles are kind of
deprecated in the API.
They're not necessary anymore,
certainly the way they used to be.
Aliases also have a limited
set of information in them you
can get back without resolving.
You can ask an alias what the
name of its file was and maybe
what kind of volume it was on,
but you can't ask it
for much beyond that.
And as I said before,
there are a lot of calls in
the alias manager because the
API has had to evolve over time.
And so just staring at the header file,
it's difficult to know what function to
call and what to pass in at some points.
The set of rules for how we resolve
an alias has changed over time.
It's been a little bit more
complicated in the past,
but it's been a lot easier to
solve because it's needed to.
Paths are a lot more important
in Mac OS than they used to be.
When aliases were first created,
the only kind of file server that
existed was an AFP file server.
And now we have the
Internet and we have USB drives.
So the rules for how they work have
changed and that's caused problems.
And lastly,
aliases don't mesh very well with
everything you've heard about so far.
So we're introducing a
new type called bookmarks.
And we were going to put up bookmarks
in huge letters and do that flashy
thing Steve does when it's new.
But I didn't know how to do
the flashy thing in Keynote.
And then Chris Parker gave
away our name earlier.
So it's not a surprise anymore.
That's it.
Bookmarks, I mean,
you've heard the name before.
You know, in web browsers,
you have bookmarks.
And logically,
a bookmark is kind of a saved URL,
something you can come back to later.
And they're the same
thing in FSEfficiency.
If you have a file colon URL,
you can make a bookmark from it.
And then later, you can say, hey,
give me back that original URL.
And it'll do what it can to get
you back a pointer to the file
that you originally had it from.
Bookmarks use standard foundation,
core foundation types,
like NSStrings and NSNumbers,
just like everything else
in the FSEfficiency APIs.
So they mesh well with
the rest of the system.
Bookmarks can also store resource
properties in the same way that,
you know, we said URLs all have
resource properties.
Bookmarks all have resource properties,
and they map directly onto the
resource properties that from the
original file it was a URL from.
And in Snow Leopard, bookmarks,
we expect you're going to use
them for file scheme URLs.
You can make a bookmark from
any URL you have in memory.
And, you know, if you have an HTTP URL,
and you say, hey,
give me a bookmark to this,
I'll give you a bookmark.
And if you give me the bookmark later,
I'll give you back an HTTP URL.
But there won't be much in it
besides the string of the URL.
Here's what you do to create a bookmark.
As we said, you have, for example,
a URL in foundation.
You'd say bookmark data with options and
you'd pass in a bunch of zeros and nulls
to get pretty much the default behavior.
It will give you back an NSData item.
Then you can squirrel that away in
whatever place you want to use it
in your document or just in memory.
At Core Foundation,
we have pretty much the same function,
the same functionality, CFURL,
create bookmark data.
[Transcript missing]
Resolution.
This process is called resolution.
If you're familiar
with the alias manager,
it's the same idea.
Internally,
we'll go through a whole bunch
of rules to try to find the file
that you made the bookmark to.
If the file was on a file server,
we may tell the user, hey,
you need to give us a password
so we can mount this file server.
If it was on a USB key,
we may ask the user to insert that
USB key back into the computer
or mount a disk image for a
file that was on a disk image.
And that's all code that
you don't have to write.
We'll do the right thing.
Earlier I said there were
properties in bookmarks,
just like URLs have resource properties.
Bookmarks have the same properties
that you can get from an NSURL.
They use the same namespace and they have
information in NSStrings or NSNumbers.
So once you've learned how to get a
property from the file system through
the FS efficiency APIs on a URL,
you know how to get the same
property out of a bookmark.
It's the same key.
It's pretty much exactly the same code.
This includes any temporary
properties that you add.
So if you want to create a bookmark
and kind of squirrel away some
information of your own in it,
you can create a URL,
add a temporary property to
that URL with your information,
then ask to create a bookmark and
ask it to include the value for
that property in the bookmark,
and it'll create a bookmark with that.
Later,
you can ask the bookmark what was the
value of this key that you guys set.
That is your temporary key value,
and it'll return it to you.
Not only that,
it has to be one of the standard
types that the system knows about,
like an NSString or an
NSNumber or an NSData.
and this information is retrieved without
needing access to the original item.
We don't touch the file system to
return properties from bookmarks
because the bookmark has pretty
much encoded everything into that
NSData object that I showed you.
Here's an example of how you create
a bookmark with a set of properties.
In this particular case, I'm saying,
I'd like you to make a
bookmark from this URL,
which is that URL up front.
In the bookmark, I'd like you to include
the name of the file,
the display name of the file,
how big the file is,
and what the effective icon is for it,
which will be the icon that would show,
for example, in the finder for the file.
and when that comes back,
you'll have a bookmark.
Later, you can ask that bookmark data
object for any of those values
and it'll give it to you,
even if the user has unmounted the disk,
even if you save this out and
write it back into memory later,
even on a different computer
if you send this across the
network to somewhere else.
Now that said,
if you want to ask a bookmark for a
property at some time in the future,
you need to ensure that you ask to have
the bookmark created with that property.
We are trying not to include
any default types in bookmarks.
We want you to tell us what you
need so that we don't have to guess
and we don't have to make things
bigger or slower or less efficient
than they would otherwise be.
Here's how you'd get those same
properties back from that bookmark.
You would call NSURL's
resource value for keys.
Earlier you saw Chris was calling
URL resource values for keys.
Here you have a bookmark.
You're saying,
please return resource values
for keys for this bookmark data.
You've given me the bookmark
data and you've said,
I'd like the file name, localized name,
and file size back.
And that's going to give
you back a dictionary.
And you can then just ask the
dictionary for each of those keys in it.
And again, all these values are returned
without accessing the file system,
without touching the
original item on disk.
So one thing that means is...
Those values might now be wrong
because they were essentially
cached at the point in time,
you know,
they were frozen in the bookmark at
the point in time you created it.
However,
if what you want to know is here's a
file the user might want to locate,
what's its icon?
Well, you've got an icon to show.
You don't have to worry about hoping
that the file system is available,
that it doesn't take too
long to spin up the disk.
Earlier I mentioned alias
files as something that
exists in the Alias Manager.
We have the same idea with bookmarks.
We expect to have a bookmark file format.
From the point of view of the user,
it will probably look
exactly like an alias file,
which will store all of the
information that I've been
talking about being in bookmarks,
supporting functionality very
similar to the alias manager.
We expect to have an API to let
you create bookmark files on disk
so that you can do it in the same
way that we in the Finder do it.
You're probably going to find you
may need to work with existing
aliases and alias files in order
to begin converting your code over
to use this FS efficiency stuff.
And there's public API for all of this.
If you have an alias record or an
alias handle in your application,
well, first you're going to resolve that
into an FS ref using one of the tried
and true alias manager routines like
FS resolve alias with mount flags.
That will give you back an FS ref
and then you can create a URL from
that FS ref by going through
see if URL create with FS ref.
If you then needed to
convert that into a bookmark,
you would do what I just showed you.
You would say bookmark with URL.
You would ask the URL for
its bookmark data.
What's the state of bookmarks in
the developer preview you have?
Most of the APIs are there.
You can create a bookmark given a URL.
You can, given a bookmark,
resolve it back into a
file URL of some kind.
And you can ask bookmarks for
their resource properties.
There are some limitations so far.
We're not done, because if we were done,
we'd ship it.
So right now bookmarks only
resolve to their items by path.
We don't have the user
has renamed the file,
let's go out and find
it behavior working yet.
We don't have support for
automatically mounting file systems
or asking the user to put disks in.
And we don't have support for
every property type in a bookmark.
We currently can't put
icons in bookmarks.
There are a couple other things that
haven't been fully tested and vetted yet.
And we don't have any of the
bookmark file APIs I just
talked about present yet.
We hope to have them in one
of the next upcoming seeds.
So I'll kind of wrap up by
saying why you should use these.
Bookmarks let you leverage the rest
of your adoption of NSURL and CFURL.
As I said,
they use the same namespace of keys,
so once you've learned how to
do something in the URL space,
you know how to make aliases from it.
And they're also extensible in ways
that aliases didn't used to be.
You can ask to have your own
information encoded in them,
and we can continue to
grow them over time.
So with that,
I'll ask Chris to come back up.
Thank you, Keith.
So just to recap everything
from the last hour.
We've gone over a bunch of new
foundational APIs for getting
information out of the file system.
We love URLs.
Everything is URL-oriented now.
So we have APIs for getting and
setting properties from file
objects and under the covers,
they're cached to improve performance.
We have efficient directory enumeration
with prefetching of properties.
And we have the whole bookmark system.
Model and API that Keith just went over,
providing very efficient resolution
and the kind of extensibility that
people have been asking for from
aliases for a number of years.
So, of course, the message is we want
everyone to use URLs.
We're really happy with the kind
of capability that this is going to
give us to simplify our own APIs,
use our own APIs internally to,
in our own frameworks,
improve Snow Leopard performance,
even in applications that
aren't using these APIs,
just by changing the
way our frameworks work.
And we invite you all to just
take a look at these APIs,
see if it helps you simplify your code,
and give us feedback because, you know,
we're not totally done yet
and we still have time to...
[Transcript missing]
Related sessions, I didn't go in,
we didn't really have time to
mention the additional higher level
APIs that are going to be specifically
taking advantage of this stuff,
but Chris Parker's session
this morning on what's new in
Cocoa actually covered some of this
as well as additional APIs going into
NS File Manager for copying files,
moving files, things like that.
So if you can catch those slides,
you can see all those APIs reviewed.
They're also in the release
notes for Foundation.
This afternoon, I'm sorry,
tomorrow is performance in
document-centric Cocoa apps
where Mark Petrelli is going to
be talking about NS Document.
And one of the things that NS Document is
doing in Snow Leopard is using
these APIs to improve performance.
We also have the Filesystem
Lab coming up this afternoon.
In fact, right after this session,
I'll be going downstairs.
Keith will be downstairs in the
lab to answer any more questions.